Jamie Vulva (00:01):
Hello, my name is [inaudible]. My name is Jamie Vuvla and I'm the person who made the menstrual blood cookies. I made these could be last December and there have been people chipping on the internet about them ever since, but this is the second time it's been posted on reddit the first time it got buried. (And That's totally fine) Um but I figured I'd make a blog, just explaining everything a little bit because a lot of people are making assumptions and have some false ideas about blood and how it works. I don't want that. So yeah. So I will start by saying that the cookies are made with real blood tablespoons of blood in, in the cookie recipe they're made with fresh blood from like that most recent cycle in December. I made them immediately after I was finished bleeding and collecting blood and all that. There's a lot of questions about the color of the cookies.

Jamie Vulva (01:25):
They're like red velvet looking almost. And that's because I added some hot, some like neon pink food coloring to sort of balance out the, the Browning and stuff that would occur with the, with the blood. Cause I didn't want to make a gross looking cookie. I wanted them to be like aesthetically pleasing. There have been some remarks about clotting the, there, there were clots in that five tablespoons. I'm not much, I don't pass a lot of clots, but there were, there were some in there. And when I mixed the batter, they just kind of dispersed. So there's that then there's also been people talking about coagulation and about how blood coaggulates immediately. And menstrual blood is a little bit different. Menstrual blood is actually like an incorrect, I wouldn't say it's necessarily incorrect, but it's not quite right because what we pass is not blood there's blood in it, but it's actually menstrual fluid.

Jamie Vulva (02:38):
And it's made up of like uterine lining and cervical mucus, vaginal secretions as well as like water and all kinds of all kinds of other stuff. There's, there's absolutely blood in there, but it's, it does not make up the majority of what is in menstrual fluid. It's just kind of what makes it red and stuff. There's also this enzyme thing in in the uterine lining called plasmin that prevents the blood from clotting - or coagulating, sorry, excuse me, we pass clots quite really. So that's why it doesn't like coagulate and get all gross and stuff like on our bodies as we pass it. Which is really wonderful because that would be horrible. So that works a little bit differently than most people think because most people think blood and then they think like coagulation and like this doesn't make sense, whatever.

Jamie Vulva (03:50):
It absolutely does make sense. Menstrual fluid or menstrual blood are like different than regular, regular blood. I feel like I need to also communicate that, that my blood jar and the blood cookies are two completely separate things. I have a blood jar that I started filling in collecting in 2009. And I haven't, I haven't been, I haven't collected probably over six months just because I haven't really felt like it. But that is the jar that's pictured. I would not use that in any sort of baking ingredient. I don't even open it in the house. I wear a mask when I open it. It smells terrible and it's horrible for you to even like breathe in the, breathing the air that, that, that blood is in or that those fumes are in. So I would never try to feed that to somebody that could very well be lethal.

Jamie Vulva (05:06):
So yeah, the cookies are made with fresh blood. I want that to be clear, fresh blood, not old blood, I'm not trying to kill anybody. I started collecting my blood just to monitor how much how much blood I was losing, because I am, I've always been a heavy bleeder. But then I had my son and I started bleeding even more. And then I got a paraguard, copper IUD and one of the effects of that is heavier periods. So most, most women bleed like between two to six tablespoons. And I usually lose about three quarters of a cup which is a lot. So it, I, I wouldn't know that had I not started like, that was why that was why I started collecting. Cause I was just like, there's like blood everywhere all the time.

Jamie Vulva (06:12):
I can't keep up with this. Oh my God. Like what is happening? So yeah, so I started collecting my blood because of that. It sits in a jar in my bathroom. Like I said, I don't really open it very often. I only really open it when I'm adding to it and that hasn't been in a while and I'll usually keep like a separate, smaller jar that I'll add to, and I'll add to, I'll add to, cause they don't like to open the other jar very often. So I'll keep one in the fridge and just like add to it for awhile. And then once it gets close to me, I'll add it to the big jar.

Jamie Vulva (06:58):
How do I collect the blood? I use my diva cap. I was looking for mine. I can't find it to show you. But it's just a little silicone cup that goes inside your vagina, your, your cervix sits, this is the cup and your cervix sits in the cup and it just like drips [makes dripping sounds] into the cup and then you take it and you like pull it out and then you've got this little cup that's full and you dump it. And I dump it into a jar. Sometimes otherwise it just goes into the toilet. So that's how I do that. Difficult. So really cool. They're super like environmentally friendly fairly inexpensive in the grand scheme of sanitary products. So I had I made the cookies as a gift for somebody. They never received the cookies because I didn't like how it turned out, but they were made as a gift for somebody whom I knew they would appreciate who, whom I knew that appreciate them.

Jamie Vulva (08:21):
They didn't, I didn't give them the cookies cause I didn't like how they turned out. I think I just said that. But yeah, I didn't, I didn't make them as any sort of feminist statement or anything like that. They're just an idea that I had and I'm the kind of person who's like, why not, why not make like these, I have the needs to do it. It could be like really interesting and cool. Granted it's kind of weird. It's kind of a weird thing to do. They're just cookies. I mean, if you really think about it, it's just my unfertilized reproductive cycle. What do you think eggs are? Exactly. That just that just out of a chicken. So yeah. It's yeah, it wasn't anything crazy. It was just like an idea that I had. So I did it. A lot of people think I like did it for attention or whatever, and I didn't. Sometimes people do weird stuff and I think that's that's okay.

Jamie Vulva (09:34):
And that should be embraced, not something that they're, they're kind of demonized for, I guess. Uh [sighs] Did I eat them? I did not really. I had a bite of one just to see what it tastes like and that way I knew like what I was going to be giving this person. And that's how I knew I was unhappy with it. The whole idea of eating my master blood, isn't very appealing to me. I don't really like the taste of blood in the first place. And granted I understand it would be completely different than cookie. I just don't like the taste of it. Nor do I have any desire eat my menstrual fluid. So yeah, I just had a bite of them. And then I kept them around for awhile and debated, still giving them to the person who ordered them because they said that they, they said that they wanted them, even though I wasn't happy with the way they turned out. But I, I didn't want, I decided I would just like make them another batch later on.

Jamie Vulva (10:53):
Yeah. there's some people commenting on the fact that I'm vegan and that I made cookies and this is really like, is this really simple to understand because consensually I'm consensually giving my blood to somebody who is consensually eating my blood was conceptually going to be eating my blood. And that's no different than like kissing somebody or breastfeeding or oral sex or um, yeah. Anything, anything like that. It's, it's all on the same. You're just consensually, like ingesting another person's fluids. And granted it's not like the norm, but I don't think it's all that strange. I mean, there's, I get that, putting them in cookies is a little bit weird, but I don't, I don't think it makes me like horribly disgusting or a bad person or anything like that. I think it just makes me adventurous and maybe a little bit creative and that's fine if you don't view it that way, or if you think I need Jesus or I'm horribly disgusting or whatever, but you don't have to be my friend. You don't have to eat my cookies. I'm the only one who tasted them. Nobody else did.

Jamie Vulva (12:26):
Anyway, this video is too long, so I'm going to stop now, but I hope you understand a little bit more about that, like, whole thing.

